machine-learning-for-applied-weather-prediction

It begins by correcting the output of each NWP
model according to past performance. DICast then optimizes
blending of the various model outputs, again building on the
past performance record. DICast has been applied to predict
the major variables of interest (such as temperature, dew point,
wind speed, irradiance, and probability of precipitation) at sites
throughout the world.

ai-revolutionises-weather-forecast

A DL-based architecture for nowcasting was rst proposed in [ 41] and consists of an
encoder–decoder architecture, where the encoder performs motion detection or a more
complicated spatiotemporal analysis and the decoder performs motion extrapolation or
a more complicated spatiotemporal forecasting. Both the encoder and the decoder used
stacked ConvLSTM units, which were based on Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) [ 42 ]
recurrent neural networks for time forecasting and which have convolutional structures in
both the input-to-state and the state-to-state transitions

use of machine learning to derive the poorly known parts of a numerical Earth
system model, in combination with physics-based modelling for the well-known parts of
the model.

using-artificial-intelligence-to-improve

Statistical models for postpro- cessing NWP model output have evolved within two general frameworks. 
"Perfect prog" models fit rela- tionships between observed or analyzed variables and observations of a 
weather feature, such as temperature or precipitation (Klein et al. 1959). The models are then applied 
to NWP forecasts, thus implicitly assuming that the NWP model is perfect. In contrast, MOS fits a 
statistical model between NWP output at a given time horizon and subsequent observations at that time 
(Glahn and Lowry 1972), often using linear regression. Because MOS fits use the NWP output directly, 
they can correct for systematic biases in a model. When NWP model configurations are updated, MOS must 
be retrained after a sufficient number of new model forecasts are collected. Perfect-prog models are gener- 
ally less accurate than a well-tuned MOS model, but they are less sensitive to model configuration changes 
and tend to be more robust over time. AI techniques can be used in both frameworks.


can-dl-beat-numerical

data preprocessing and interpolation:
the central task of DA is to ll the gap between the
incomplete, heterogeneous, and scattered observations and the initial value elds which are
required by the NWP models. To achieve this, the observation data must be projected onto the
discrete model grid, interpolated in time and adjusted to be consistent in terms of state variables
(e.g. temperature, pressure, wind etc.). DA also has to take into account measurement errors
such as biases between different space instruments or malfunctions of individual ground-based
sensors. The obtained initial state of the Earth system after the DA step therefore constitutes an
optimized estimate of the real conditions 

Current DA systems are primarily
based on three- or four-dimensional variational approaches (3D-Var and 4D-Var, respectively) and
on ensemble methods (commonly Kalman lter). In the 3D-Var approach, a single deterministic
state is estimated by minimizing a cost function which generally consists of the three terms
background, observation, and model error. 4D-Var additionally captures observation changes in
time

Given the initial conditions, the NWP model can perform a simulation of atmospheric
processes. By solving numerically the coupled partial differential equation system describing
the atmosphere in terms of momentum, mass and enthalphy (the Navier–Stokes equations), the
future atmospheric state is obtained in each model grid cell. Processes occurring at scales smaller
than the model grid size are captured by empirical parameterizations. The direct model output
constitutes the rst forecast product of the NWP workow. In contemporary global NWP models,
the grid boxes cover an area of several square kilometres.
In order to arrive at ner scale end-user forecast products, a post-processing step is added to
the NWP workow. The outcome of such post-processing can cover a variety of forecast products
starting with the conversion of the vertical axis from sigma-coordinates to pressure levels or
geometric height (above mean sea level) or bias corrections. Statistical methods are applied to
remove systematic biases of the NWP output and to incorporate local scale adjustments (statistical
downscaling). Furthermore, limited-area models which allow for ner grid spacings (x ∼
O(1–5 km) compared to x O ∼ (10 km) in global models) provide added value on forecasting
meteorological features on ner scales. The output of ensemble simulations can be used to
estimate forecast uncertainties which are of major interest especially for high impact weather
situations, or for the renewable energy sector [19,20] (see also §7)

daily-weather-forecasting

Artificial Neural Network, Ensemble
Neural Network, Backpropagation Network, Radial Basis
Function Network, General Regression Neural Network,
Genetic Algorithm, Multilayer Perceptron, Fuzzy clustering

use-of-artificial-neural-network-in-data-mining

Artificial Neural Network, Ensemble
Neural Network, Backpropagation Network, Radial Basis
Function Network, General Regression Neural Network,
Genetic Algorithm, Multilayer Perceptron, Fuzzy clustering


application-of-data-mining

n this work the C5 decision tree classification
algorithm was used to generate decision trees and rules
for classifying weather parameters such as maximum
temperature, minimum temperature, rainfall,
evaporation and wind speed in terms of the month and
year.