ai-revolutionises-weather-forecast

In order to realistically simulate the long-term changes,
a climate model needs to describe not only changes in the atmosphere, but also changes in
the oceans and land cover.
In general, it is considered that a higher spatial resolution used in NWP models
results in a higher realism of the produced weather forecasts, in particular for precipitation
forecasts [13 –18 ]. Convection-permitting spatial resolutions of the order of 1 km are used
for high-resolution NWP models over limited areas. Ideally, they would also be used in
global NWP models. However, this is considered to be at the limit of what is feasible
following the traditional Central Processing Unit (CPU)-based computing approach, and
therefore, alternative computing architectures using Graphical Processing Units (GPUs)
have been investigated [19 ]. For global climate models as well, a convection-permitting
spatial resolution is considered highly desirable [20].
Midrange weather forecasts have skill for a forecast range of the order of two weeks;
long-range or seasonal ones have skill for a forecast range of the order of three to six months.
There is a growing interest in developing so-called subseasonal to seasonal forecasts to ll
in the gap between the midrange and seasonal forecasts 

Another example of AI-based data fusion is the Multi-Instrument Inversion and Data
Assimilation Preprocessing System (MIIDAPS-AI) [37 ]. MIIDAPS-AI provides an AI-based
data fusion of microwave and infrared imagers and sounders and produces the analysis
of a variety of atmospheric parameters. The algorithms for the data fusion of around
ten satellite sensors was built by two people in less than ten months. The processing time
was at least a factor 100 smaller than for a comparable non-AI-based system.

Convection-permitting NWP models at the global scale are currently at the limit of what
is feasible using conventional NWP techniques. A possible solution is the use of DL


using-artificial-intelligence-to-improve

reducing cognitive overload
handling big datasets
postmodel bias correction

can-dl-beat-numerical

two core arguments in this regard are the lack of explainability of deep NNs
and the lack of physical constraints. Furthermore, some scepticism prevails due to the fact that
researchers have experimented with rather simple NNs which were clearly unsuited to capture
the complexity of meteorological data and feedback processes, but then extrapolate these results
to discredit any NN application including the much more powerful DL systems. In their review
of ‘Deep learning and process understanding for data-driven Earth system science’, Reichstein
et al. [14] argue that traditional ML approaches might not be optimally suited to address the
specic data challenges posed by Earth system data. They suggest that ‘deep learning methods
are needed to cope with complex statistics, multiple outputs, different noise sources and high-
dimensional spaces [of Earth system data]. New network topologies that not only exploit local
neighbourhood (even at different scales) but also long-range relationships (for example, for
teleconnections) are urgently needed, but the exact cause-and-effect relations between variables
are not clear in advance and need to be discovered.’ As modern DL methods begin to deliver such
concepts, we take this opportunity to expand on the analysis of [14] and explore the applicability
of such methods to the NWP workow

The largest NNs have several million
degrees of freedom which is comparable to operational NWP models.

Once NNs are trained, they can very efciently calculate forecasts
with new data. Forward propagation in NNs consists only of fast add and multiply operations.
Therefore, even NNs with O(10 8 ) parameters (i.e. similar complexity as contemporary NWP
models) can be expected to use far less computing resources than current numerical models.
The determining factors of the required computational resources in an end-to-end DL weather
forecasting system are the necessary training cycles and the data processing

t is important to reconsider the objectives of weather forecasting and
carefully dene the requirements, which must be met by any potential alternative method. Certain
criteria, which we now consider essential for a ‘good’ weather forecast, may in fact be conceptions,
which are resulting from our experiences with numerical models, and they may not be applicable
to forecasting systems based on DL. One particular aspect in this regard is self-consistency of
forecast results, which is often taken for granted by numerical modellers, even though it is not
strictly fullled in current NWP forecast systems.


big-data-in-weather

Availability of Historical Data:
Most of the stations do not have long records (historical
data). The infrequent historical data cannot sufficiently
give the required patterns that help in forecasting drastic
weather and extreme climate events; process becomes
even more complex when more than a single type of data
is missing at the time that the forecast must be delivered .
Most of the systems associated with the occurrence need
dense data networks to sample adequately. The most
affected data is the upper air data. That result in majority
of the stations closed down or do not perform a complete
programme. The systems need upper air observations to
be able to understand their characteristics appropriately.
For example the squall lines of West Africa are known to
form equatorward of the Inter-tropical Convergence Zone
and African Easterly Jet at 700-600hpa, and pole-ward of
the Tropical Easterly Jet at 100-150hpa (Carlson, 1969
and Fortune, 1980). Any efforts to simulate the squall
lines of West Africa may have to simulate adequately
these important properties to be able to find the actual
locations of these key features. The insufficient upper air
data would be a major obstruction. However, the proxy
satellite remote sensing data may help in simulating some
of these properties. The satellite records are not very long
and may not be able to capture various characteristics of
the storms. Such data also need calibration

Higher resolution models are fundamental needs of
weather forecasting for more accurate and extended
forecasts. Therefore estimating the long-term state of
climate systems higher-resolution models are essential
element. Additionally a lot of physics and chemistry
processes are included in the models so that we can
observe the very fine features of weather behaviour. The
operational weather centres should meet all the
requirements of a mission-critical organization. The
underlying technology infrastructure should be tightly
integrated to support simulation and analytics workflows.
They have to ensure daily forecasts to perform in a very
slender window of WLPH