ml-in-weather-prediction

The 10 most common phrases are presented in Figure 2. Since the
topic of post-processing NWP results to improve forecasts concerning renewable energy
is very common among scientists, the phrase “Wind Forecasting” had the highest count
(Figure 2). The phrase with the second highest count turned out to be “Ensemble Forecast-
ing”, due to the growing interest in improving probabilistic forecasts and in the methods
required to interpret them correctly. Slightly fewer counts were recorded for phrases such
as “Data Assimilation”, “Extreme Events”, “Remote Sensing”, and “Land Cover”. Less
than 10 counts were found for the phrases “Tropical Cyclones”, “Coupled Models”, “Cloud
Physics”, and “Boundary Layer”

For the second group of research papers related to machine learning methods in cli-
mate, a similar histogram is presented in Figure 3. Unsurprisingly, the most common phrase
in this group was “Climate Change”, with more than 140 counts. Almost three times more
counts were recorded for the phrase “Global Climate Models” than for “Regional Climate
Models”. Slightly less common phrases were “Climate Impact”, “Remote Sensing”, “Land
Cover”, and “Extreme Events”, while phrases such as “Coupled Models”, “Convection”,
and “Calibration” had less than 10 counts.

In addition to text mining of research topics and phrases, similar word counts in the
abstracts of selected publications can also give an interesting insight into the most common
topics of interest. Some of the most interesting results derived using this method are pre-
sented in the following section. Figure 4 presents the most commonly used meteorological
elds in NWP studies. Scientists mentioned the term ‘wind’ more than 200 times, and this
term is related to an important group of renewable energy and wind forecasting studies, as
presented in Figure 2. The term ‘precipitation’ was used almost 150 times, usually with
regards to applications for short-range prediction, and downscaling or post-processing.
Several papers on bias correction of temperature and air pressure were present, as well as
studies on radiation, both using photovoltaic application and emulating this scheme in
NWP models.


development-and-application-ml-in

Various metrics were used in different studies, such as root mean square error (RMSE),
correlation coefcient (CORR), mean square error (MSE), mean absolute percentage error
(MAPE), index of agreement (IOA), normalized root mean square error (NRMSE), and
so on. According to the metric availability calculated, two indicators were available for
model performance analysis: CORR (63.9%) and RMSE (73.8%).