ai-revolutionises-weather-forecast

Practical weather forecast relies on the assimilation of a large number of observations
from various types into Numerical Weather Prediction (NWP) models. Since the end of the
Century, a breakthrough in the assimilation of global satellite data has resulted in the
convergence of the Northern and Southern Hemisphere prediction skill [5]. The current
state-of-the-art data assimilation method is the co-called 4D-Var data assimilation [6,7]. For
each of the observation types, a so-called observation operator is implemented, allowing
relating the NWP model’s internal parameters to the specic observation type. In the varia-
tional data assimilation process, the internal parameters are tuned in order to reproduce
the available observations. For the high-density satellite remote sensing observations, some
form of data thinning [ 8] is needed. The current horizontal resolution of the European
Center for Mid-Range Weather Forecasting (ECMWF) deterministic forecast is 9 km [ 9 ]. A
probabilistic ensemble forecast is obtained by running the forecast model multiple times
with slightly different initial conditions. To reduce the computational cost, the resolution is
reduced to 18 km for the ECMWF ensemble forecast [9].

An example where the information retrieval and data fusion are combined through
a single DL network was given in [32], where Meteosat Spinning Enhanced Visible and
Infrared (SEVIRI) [ 33 ] geostationary satellite images were combined with rain gauges for
the estimation of the amount of precipitation. In [ 32], a multiscale DL network of the U-Net
type [34] combines spectral and spatial information from three selected SEVIRI channels
at 8.7, 10.8, and 12.0 μm with surface rain gauges. The U-Net architecture is a popular
example of a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN), illustrated in Figure 1. We note that
those SEVIRI channels are usable day and night and contain information on microphysical
parameters relevant to precipitation processes [35]. The network simultaneously performs
different tasks


weather-forecasting-using-ml

real time predictions using microcontrollers and ml


smart-weather-forecasting

In future, we have plans to utilize low-cost Internet of Things
(IoT) devices, such as temperature and humidity sensors, in collect-
ing weather data from dierent parts of a city. The use of dierent
sensors could increase the number of local features in the training
dataset. This data, along with the weather station data, will further
improve the performance of our prediction models


can-ml-beat-numerical

We think that it is not
inconceivable that numerical weather models may one
day become obsolete, but a number of fundamental
breakthroughs are needed before this goal comes into
reach.

First,
manual NWP was attempted by Lewis Fry Richardson in Britain in 1922, and 
early computer-aided weather forecasts were produced in 1950 [1].
These were soon followed by operational weather forecasts in Sweden, the USA and Japan.
While there has been steady progress in the development of NWP (cf. [2]), the history of
ML (cf. [3]) has been more disruptive: the rst neural network (NN) was proposed in 1943 by
McCulloch & Pitts [4]. The eld expanded until the early 1960s, when the existing algorithms
proved inefcient and unstable. The invention of backpropagation in 1970 [5,6] led to a second
wave of ML applications as it became possible to build more extensive NNs and train them
to recognize nonlinear relationships in data
ighly complex NNs with greater than 106 parameters
enabled a breakthrough in image recognition [8], soon followed by remarkable success stories
in speech recognition [9], gaming [10,11], and video analysis and prediction [12,13]

most of these studies were restricted to
short-term forecasts and a few individual target sites, and none has yet attempted to explore the
wealth of combined meteorological observations from the plethora of instruments and sensors,
which is routinely used in operational weather forecasts

NWP model improvements can in part be related to resolution enhancements. The continuous
renement of the grid spacing has also required re-formulating the dynamical cores of NWP
models where the discretized Navier–Stokes equations are solved. Simulating the atmosphere
on kilometre-scale comes along with the demand of highly parallelizable algorithms of the
dynamical core 

In addition to the improvement of dynamical cores, further gains in accuracy have
been achieved by ne-tuning physical parameterizations which are mandatory to represent
atmospheric processes that cannot be captured by the grid-scale thermodynamics. Among others,
these parameterizations encompass the representation of (deep) convection, turbulent mixing,
smaller-scale atmosphere-land/ocean coupling, the representation of cloud microphysics and
radiative transfer. Advances in capturing the diurnal cycle of convection (e.g. [36,37]), the
turbulent transports in the planetary boundary layer (e.g. [38]) and in simulating the bulk
properties of hydrometeors (e.g. [39]), i.e. clouds and precipitation, are only a small sample of
recent progress in tuning physical parameterization schemes.


ai-in-weather-and-climate-prediction

The motions of the atmosphere (and of the ocean) are physically described by
the fundamentals of uid dynamics. The basis are the 3-dimensional Navier-
Stokes equations, as set of nonlinear differential equations. Together with
other equations describing energy transfer and conservation and a hydrostatic
approximation they are often referred to as the “primitive equations” in the
context of weather and climate models. As no general solution to the Navier-
Stokes equations is known, they can only be solved in an approximate way with
discrete numerical methods. Due to their non-linearity, this requires the use of
so-called closure schemes. These form, together with processes not covered
by uid dynamics (for example radiation), the parameterization schemes of
the numerical model. While the Navier-Stokes equations are exact, the param-
eterization schemes are not - or at least not purely - based on physical laws.
These inexact parameterization schemes, together with the error induced by
numerically discretizing the primitive equations, make the models imperfect,
and thus lead to errors in the solutions provided by the models (for example a
weather forecast or climate simulation).
In NWP, another major error source comes from the estimation of the ini-
tial condition of a forecast. In order to make an accurate prediction, not only
a good enough model of the atmosphere is needed, but also a good estima-
tion of the current state of the atmosphere, which forms the initial condition of
the model. This is accomplished with data-assimilation methods that combine
observations and numerical models [16].
While there are some differences between NWP models and climate mod-
els, for example climate models do not have data-assimilation schemes, and
slightly more focus on energy-conservation than NWP models, they are very
similar, since they fundamentally rely on modeling of atmospheric ows (and
other components of the climate system). Therefore, methods developed for
one can often be used also for the other.