ai-revolutionises-weather-forecast

Articial Intelligence (AI) is an explosively growing eld of computer technology, which
is expected to transform many aspects of our society in a profound way. AI techniques are used to
analyse large amounts of unstructured and heterogeneous data and discover and exploit complex
and intricate relations among these data, without recourse to an explicit analytical treatment of those
relations. These AI techniques are unavoidable to make sense of the rapidly increasing data deluge
and to respond to the challenging new demands in Weather Forecast (WF), Climate Monitoring (CM)
and Decadal Prediction (DP). The use of AI techniques can lead simultaneously to: (1) a reduction
of human development effort, (2) a more efcient use of computing resources and (3) an increased
forecast quality. To realise this potential, a new generation of scientists combining atmospheric
science domain knowledge and state-of-the-art AI skills needs to be trained. AI should become a
cornerstone of future weather and climate observation and modelling systems.

Deep Learning (DL) [24 ], as a particular form of Machine Learning (ML) and Articial
Intelligence (AI), has recently emerged as a powerful evolution of neural networks. It
has dramatically improved the state-of-the-art in image, video and speech processing
and is now rapidly spreading to other application domains. DL is a purely data-driven
technique, which discovers relations—often intractable by explicit analytic or physical
analysis—between the input and output data, by training on reference input datasets and
corresponding labelled output data. Several training algorithms are emerging, but the
Remote Sens. 2021, 13, 3209 3 of 12
backpropagation algorithm has been the most popular one for many years [ 25 ]. Given the
ever-increasing availability of “big data” and computing power—particularly on dedicated
hardware such as GPUs—needed for the training of the DL networks, the discovery of
hidden relations in the data themselves has become more efcient in terms of human
effort compared to the traditional approach requiring the handcrafted design of feature
extractors used in traditional machine learning, classication and pattern recognition or
models translating the available input data into the desired output data.

As opposed to the conventional NWP approach [1], where observations are assimilated
into an NWP model based on a physical modelling of the behaviour of the atmosphere,
it is possible to completely replace the physical NWP model with a pure data-driven
AI-based model without any a priori physical knowledge included [ 44 ]. In [45 ], it was
demonstrated that a pure AI forecasting model can have comparable performance to a
conventional NWP model, provided that the models have a comparable resolution. A
bottleneck for the development of pure AI-based forecasts at a resolution and performance
comparable to state-of-the-art operational NWP forecasts is the availability of sufcient
training data [ 45 ]. The best practical results can therefore be expected from a combination
of NWP and AI techniques [ 46 ]. This might also facilitate the acceptance of AI in a domain
hitherto dominated by numerical (physical) modelling. In [ 47], a benchmark dataset for
the evaluation of pure AI forecasting was provided. Pure AI forecasting is an area of active
development. 

Operational weather and climate organisations are increasingly including the use of AI
in their strategies. The number of workshops, benchmark datasets and journal Special
Issues dedicated to the subject of AI for weather and climate application is increasing. It is
very likely that within the next ve to ten years, AI will become an indispensable part of
state-of-the-art weather forecasting and climate monitoring and prediction. Techniques
such as transfer learning and data augmentation, which have given a boost to many other
applications, could accelerate the impact of AI techniques in climate and weather prediction
and reduce the need for extra-large labelled datasets.

weather-monitoring-using-artificial-intelligence

Monitoring and
predicting weather helps in various fields like
agriculture, travel, pollution dispersal,
communication, disaster management, etc.

using-artifical-intelligence-to-improve

(American)
7.9 billion dollars caused by property damage in 2015 (National centers for environmental information)
forecasting solar powers will save 455 million by 2040

ml-applied-to-weather-forecasting

Weather forecasting has traditionally been done by physical models of the atmosphere, which are
unstable to perturbations, and thus are inaccurate for large periods of time. Since machine learning
techniques are more robust to perturbations, in this paper we explore their application to weather
forecasting to potentially generate more accurate weather forecasts for large periods of time. The
scope of this paper was restricted to forecasting the maximum temperature and the minimum tem-
perature for seven days, given weather data for the past two days. A linear regression model and
a variation on a functional regression model were used, with the latter able to capture trends in
the weather. Both of our models were outperformed by professional weather forecasting services,
although the discrepancy between our models and the professional ones diminished rapidly for fore-
casts of later days, and perhaps for even longer time scales our models could outperform professional
ones. The linear regression model outperformed the functional regression model, suggesting that
two days were too short for the latter to capture signicant weather trends, and perhaps basing
our forecasts on weather data for four or ve days would allow the functional regression model to
outperform the linear regression model.
 the system of ordinary dierential equa-
tions that govern this physical model is unstable under
perturbations, and uncertainties in the initial measure-
ments of the atmospheric conditions and an incomplete
understanding of complex atmospheric processes restrict
the extent of accurate weather forecasting to a 10 day pe-
riod, beyond which weather forecasts are signicantly un-
reliable

applications-in-atmospheric-environments

The problem of assessing, managing and forecasting air quality (AQ) has been in the top of
the environmental policy and management agenda for decades, and contemporary urban develop-
ment has made it more intense and severe in terms of quality of life degradation. As this problem
requires sufficient knowledge of the scientific domain of interest, and advanced capabilities for the
identification and forecasting of key parameters affecting decision making, it is essential to formu-
late and apply methodologies that will lead to the materialisation of both goals


ai-in-weather-and-climate-prediction

Weather and climate prediction is dominated by high dimensionality, interac-
tions on many different spatial and temporal scales and chaotic dynamics. This
makes many problems in the eld quite complex ones, and also state-of-the-art
numerical models are - despite their immense computational costs - not suf-
cient for many applications. Therefore, it is appealing to use emerging new
technologies such as articial intelligence to tackle these problems.
We show that it is possible to use deep neural networks to emulate the full
dynamics of a strongly simplied general circulation model, providing both
good forecasts of the model state several days ahead as well as stable long-term
climate timeseries. This method partly also works on more complex and real-
istic models, but only for forecasting the model’s weather several days ahead,
not for creating climate runs. It is sufcient to use 50-100 years of data for
training the networks. The same neural network method can be combined with
singular value decomposition from numerical ensemble weather forecasting in
order to generate probabilistic ensemble forecasts with the neural network


data-mining-techniques-for-weather-prediction

Data mining [13] is a process which finds useful patterns from
large amount of data. Data mining can also be defined as the
process of extracting implicit, previously unknown and useful
information and knowledge from large quantities of noisy,
ambiguous, random, incomplete data for practical application.
It is a powerful new technology with great potential to help
companies focus on the most important information in their
databases. It uses machine learning, statistical and visualization
technique to discover and predict knowledge in a form which is
understandable to the user. Prediction is the most important
technique of data mining which employs a set of pre-classified
examples to develop a model that can classify the data and
discover relationship between independent and dependent data.